All right, I hope you are
enjoying this in this video also
I will introduce you
to the more code and more keywords.
Now don't take it too much
on the pressure side, take it light.
I'm just introducing you with a lot
of keywords on the code.
You will understand it more as we
grow and we got into the course.
But I just want you
to taste the Python right now.
We are not writing accurate
Python, but I just want you
to feel the language.
How does it look like?
It's not that scary.
Just type on the things
on the keyboard, you will
be all in under control.
Let's explore more
part of the Python.
Let me take you on the screen and you
will get to know more about it.
So we'll explore a little
bit about the Python.
Objects, properties, methods.
So what this is all about,
so whatever we have written here,
like boil waters, this is function.
This is also known as methods.
So it wouldn't be wrong if
I just go ahead and name this
whole thing as a method.
Yeah, method or call it as function.
These are like interchangeably terms.
So again, this makechai
is also a function.
And this whole fill kettle,
this is also a function.
Anything that has parenthesis,
this is a function.
Now, not all the time, we actually
write functions like this.
Sometimes we actually
write them something like this.
So we have a whole big box
and just like we have this small
box up here, we actually like
to write a lot of these functions.
So imagine this is one,
this is another one.
This is another one,
That's exactly what we, we saw that
we have fill kettle, we have plug
in kettle, we have boil water.
All these are functions,
so consider them as like this.
Now when we have these kinds
of things as methods or properties,
sometimes we call this
outer box as another name.
Yeah, this is known as whole class.
So I'll just go ahead and name this,
this is known as class.
And class could be named
anything, whatever you like, like
chai, chai, shop, whatever.
So this is whole big, like a factory.
And each factory has
its own smaller units.
Would you like to actually go
into the depth of it?
Surely we will write some
of the example code for it so that
we can understand more of it.
Apart from this, I also want you
to understand couple of more things.
First of all, there is
something known as object.
What is an object?
So in the world of programming, a lot
of things are called as object.
In the real world, let's just say
you want to call an object a cup.
Definitely it's an object.
Probably a, kettle.
This is also an object,
or probably chai.
This is also in itself an object.
This is like a thing in the world
of programming in itself.
Apart from this, you will
also get to know about
something known as properties.
So what are properties?
Just like English, nothing else.
Properties is like probably cup,
color, that's the property,
or probably chai sweetness.
So that is also a property.
Yeah, as I told you, it's exactly
like how it is in the real world.
And then finally we have
something known as methods, or
we call them as functions.
This is the most important part.
This is the actionable step.
Or I can call this as
in simple actions.
This is like performing something.
Probably you are staring
or you are pouring.
I'll just write pour, not pouring,
you're pouring
or pour or, or probably drink.
These are methods and this is
all what we're going to learn
in the world of Python that, okay,
this is all the things that I
have to go through and learn.
And yeah, this is all it
is all about, the Python.
All right, nicely
captured, nicely drawn.
I'll put up a box so that
when you see this, this looks
good, beautiful to you.
So a whole Python program can be
a mix of these classes, these
methods, objects and properties.
And that's what makes a program.
Can we go ahead and write
another fake program which doesn't
work, but still gives you
an idea of all the thing that
we are trying to do here.
Let's go ahead and try this.
Let's close this.
This is not going to work again,
but we can create a new file.
We are going to call this one as,
non Python Shop Py.
Of course, py is an extension
to write Python files.
And, and don't worry, very soon
we're going to again
see that how to actually install
the Python and go for it again.
This is also again a part where
I just say, just experience it.
And again, don't worry, you will
write a ton of code in the Python.
So right now just
experience it with me.
As I said, sometimes
we call it as class.
So this is a bigger, bigger function,
like big boss of a function.
We call this one as a chai.
There we go.
We don't put parentheses around
it because it's a class.
And as I mentioned, this
is exactly like this.
We have a class, we can
call it whatever you like.
In this case we are
calling it as chai.
In this we can have multiple of
these small factories or small area
in a chai shop or Just a function.
So let's go ahead and see
more keywords which
you haven't seen that.
So then we will discuss them.
Don't you worry.
We actually use to underscore.
Then we call init.
Then we use to underscore again.
And then we put it like this.
This means we have opened
the Chai factory.
Whenever you open a factory, it
requires some of the minimum things
in that, we will use them.
So whenever you open a new shop,
you need licenses, you need
some table and chair, maybe
a stove, something like that.
So we first of all, whenever we
use something like this, there
is a keyword known as self.
We will go in depth of it.
Don't worry about it,
don't sweat it too much.
This is just an experience
part that what's about to come.
We will go in depth
of each and everything.
Right now just sit back, enjoy it.
Then whenever you open, this one,
you actually go ahead and divide
something like sweetness.
That okay, by default if I'll cook,
a T or I'll brew a T, this is going
to be my sweetness level.
This is going to be my milk level.
Of course customer can customize
it, but this is my factory.
I'm just setting this
up blueprint of it.
So I'll just go ahead
and say self again.
This is a syntax.
Don't worry on too much.
I'll just go ahead and say sweetness.
So whenever I make it, this is going
to be my sweetness again.
What is this syntax?
Don't you worry, we
will understand this.
Right now I just want
you to have this.
This is a syntax
similar to sweetness.
We are going to go ahead and have
the milk level of it as well.
We are going to go ahead and say
milk underscore level.
And we're going to go
ahead and say milk level.
So whenever I open up a factory,
there is a method known as init.
And again, this has
its own importance.
So whenever you open up a class,
you have to have
to provide an INIT method.
Init.
And that's what we are doing.
So class INIT means class
has been initialized.
As soon as you initialize, you
cannot have an empty shop.
There needs to be some cup,
some T, or some preparation
method, something like that.
So this is our preparation method.
If you understand it, that is okay.
If you not understand
it, please remove it.
As of now, we are not
focusing on these.
I just want you to have.
Because as many time as you're going
to see in the iteration these
words, this will make your life
a Little easier right now.
It might feel a little bit
overwhelming, but that's okay.
Then let's try to set
up the factories.
Okay, so factory number one,
let's call this one as sip.
Somebody sip the T.
So we're going to define
method computer.
Is that dumb?
You have to define everything in it.
And whenever you define anything
inside the class, you have
to actually get the self.
What is the self?
It has its own important meaning.
We will explore it, we'll
cut through it like in depth
and we'll see everything.
And right now we just want
to have a print statement.
You're going to see in the Python
a lot of printing statement.
Get ready for does nothing.
It just prints nothing
in a black terminal.
That's it.
Okay, so we're going
to say sipping chai.
That's it.
We can have another factory or a,
small factory for it.
Let's just say somebody
wants to add a sugar.
So let's just create a method for it.
I want you to add sugar.
Again, self is obviously
going to be always there.
And then we ask how much
amount you want to have
and we're going to do nothing.
We're going to just go ahead
and say print like
added the sugar just like it.
So this is the most basic part
of how it's being done.
So we have a class, we have
this one basic factory.
Then we have two of these
methods inside this.
So you can add more as well.
We had just added two more.
Feel free to add more.
Like maybe you want to have
how strong you want
to have T so the customer
can tell the amount of T.
Now how do we go ahead
and get started with this?
So again, a little bit more code.
But again just experience this.
We will go through it,
we'll dissect of it.
But again I just want to have
you a little bit of experience.
People try to delay it as
much as I don't want.
I want you to have
at least a look that.
Okay, this is coming up.
It's okay.
It's okay to have this
much of line of code.
So how do we do it?
We simply go ahead and use this chai.
Remember we have used
the uppercase letter here.
So that's how we do it.
As soon as I make my chai,
this method will kick in.
This is init.
So as soon as initialized or
means you have set up a
factory, you have to tell me
how much sweet it is going to
be, how much the milk level is
going to be.
And again it's super easy.
I'LL just go ahead and say
that, hey, my sweetness level is
going to be probably three.
I don't know what that three is.
Maybe three teaspoon,
maybe three, tablespoon.
I don't know, but it is something.
Then I also give milk level.
I don't know.
We have probably milk
level one, two or three.
I'll just say 50, 50, like
two portion of milk.
I don't know how it is.
And then we can store it into
a memory with some reference.
And we can call
with a name like my name is Hitesh.
Your name might be Rahul
or John, whatever it is.
So we're going to call
this one as my chai.
So we're going to go ahead
and say my underscore chai.
And then we're going to say equal.
And again, I can write that better.
Mychai now mychai can use or
can run any of these methods.
You don't have to say define again.
You just have to name the method.
That's it.
So notice here, mychai can actually
use a dot and it has all the methods
like I can add sugar, I can sip.
I don't want to sip right now.
I want to add sugar.
How, how much sugar you want to add?
I don't know, probably
one, probably five.
Whatever.
So again, this is really a lot
of code in the very first section.
But I want you to taste this.
Not the T, but the whole
code part of it.
I could have avoided this
and got you into the course first
and just get you comfortable.
But I want you to write the code
by the end of this course.
That's why I've written this much
of the code in front of it.
15 lines of code in the very
first section is usually
avoided by most teachers.
I don't, I want you
to get right into it.
So I hope you got this part that.
Yes, this is like an object.
And again now just see that whatever
we have done, do we have some of
the objects like cup, kettle, chai?
Yeah, probably yes.
A little bit of the sweetness.
We do have some of the cups as well.
Probably sipping.
We can add some cups.
We have some properties as well,
like chai, how much sweet it is.
We are manipulating these
properties as well.
We do have some methods as well,
like stirring, pouring, drinking.
So we have a drinking
method like sip.
We have a method for adding
the sugar and we are controlling
some of the properties like
sweetness or milk.
So this is how a Python program
and believe it or not, you have
written a, really, really remarkable
and Complex Python code already.
This is exactly right now
it doesn't have a meaning.
But as eventually we'll go through
and we'll learn about the logic
part of it, you will be able to
turn everything into logic, like
what happens when you click on
the screen, what happens when you
move the cursor away from the
screen.
All of this can be controlled here,
and that's what I want you to see.
Yeah, Programming is nice and simple
again in this section.
From here onwards, we are not going
to be writing any more code.
Don't worry about it.
Your experience part is over.
But as long as you are decently
comfortable in this piece of
code, and this piece of code, you
probably don't write it right
now, but at least you understand,
okay, the SIP is a smaller
factory inside a bigger factory
and I can use it.
The add sugar is also like a small
factory, which does some work.
I don't know what work, but it
does some work to my program,
to my variables, or mean some
information on the program.
As long as you're comfortable
with this, that's it.
Your journey will be super easy
in the Python and this
is what it is coming up.
All right, so this is all the code
part for the section one.
Now let's go ahead and take a little
bit tour of the theoretical part.
And in the very next video,
we're going to learn one more thing
which is super important
for you to understand that why
we are going with the Python.
Of course you are in this course,
that's why we are going with it.
But there are other reasons that why
Python is getting popular and why
I made this course as well.
Let's go ahead and move on
to the next video
and explore why Python part.